Welcome back in the last video we built a map visualization and a pie chart for our climate dashboard.
Let's keep working and finish up this visualization.
Next up is the bar chart.
This one is trickier since it interacts so closely with the map in the app japes.
Once again assume I have create and draw functions create just needs width and height drawn the data
set the current data type and the current country.
Since no country is selected on page load I'll pass an empty string when the year changes.
I don't need to redraw the bars but I do need to change their coloring since the bar for the current
year is highlighted differently.
So I'll need third function called I like bars.
That just takes in the current year when the data type changes.
I'll need to update the bar chart.
So in this callback I'll see if there's an active country and then cold drop or with the appropriate
values.
Let's head over to a barge.
Yes once again not much is going on with the create function.
Just formatting the Viji and appending some elements highlight bars is also relatively straightforward.
I just need to grab all of the rectangles and update their fill based on their year in the current year.
The drawing though will take some more work after setting some basic info on widths heights and paddings
of filter my data to the appropriate country and sort by year.
Note that if I pass an empty string this array will be empty and I'll end up removing of the bars from
the chart.
Then create X and Y scales along with a bar with based on the scale.
Here I'm basically setting this variable equal to the scaled value of one year next.
I'll set up my axes one slightly annoying thing is that the x axis labels will have commas in them even
though they're years so I'll use D-3 the format in passing a formatter to the Access Tich format method
that removes commas.
You can read more about these methods in the docs if you're interested.
The X-axis never really changes but the Y-axis does.
So I'll give it a transition.
Next I need to update my title and y axis label based on the data type in the country.
If there is one now I'll create a transition that I'll use in a couple of places and then once again
make use of the general update pattern.
Here's my update selection.
After creating it I'll hop into the selection in transition bars that are slated for removal.
I'll give them a delay based on their index with this expression.
The last bar won't have any delay.
The second to last bar will be delayed by 100 milliseconds and so on.
Once the transition is complete I'll remove the selection.
Now I'll hop into the enter selection append rectangles and start at the bottom with no height then
all merge.
Update The Xon with attributes.
Then use the same transition that I had on exit but with the delay in the opposite order.
Now the first rectangle will have no delay.
The second one will be delayed 100 milliseconds and so on.
My y in height attributes will be set using this transition.
This is all well and good but in order to see the bars show up.
We also need an event handler for clicking on the map.
So let's head back into the map dodgiest file inside of the Enter selection.
I'll add an event handler for clicks when I click on a country.
First check to see what the current data type is.
Then I'll store what I clicked on in a D-3 selection.
I'll handle the logic for highlighting the country by toggling a class called active.
So next I'll check to see whether my selection has the active class.
If it's active I want to remove the bar chart by setting the country name to an empty string if it's
inactive.
I want to draw bars for this country.
Either way if I pass country name and current data type into my drop R function I'll update the bar
chart.
I also need to remember to color the bars appropriately and update the classes for all countries.
First our move active from all of the countries since I don't want two countries to be active at once
and then I'll toggle the active class on the country I clicked on.
This way an active country will become inactive in an inactive country will become active saving refresh
great it seems like this is working to Lastly we come to the tool tip.
I'll handle all of this logic inside of the app.
Yes I could add different event handlers for each of the three SVGA.
But to minimize the number of event handlers I need I'll just add one let's tackle this update tool
tip function.
When one of these events fires first grab the tooltip as well as the then target and turn them into
D-3 selections.
Next I need to know whether the event came from a country a bar or an ark.
If any of these are true I should make the tooltip well.
I also need to know whether to show up missions or missions per capita data.
So I'll grab the data type and set the correct unit how I access the data to show in the tooltip.
Also depends on which graph triggered the event.
If I hovered over a country the data lives inside of the properties.
If I hovered over an arc it lives inside of the data key and if I hovered over a bar I can access the
join data more directly next.
I'll set the opacity of the tooltip based on whether I have had over an appropriate element and move
it closer to the mouse.
If data is truthy format the appropriate data value
then I'll update my HDMI on the tooltip I'll show the country the data type and value being visualized
and the current year.
Let's save and refresh.
This looks pretty good but the data type doesn't display nicely.
And we're still missing a feature for the pie chart.
I want to show percentages to for the formatting of the data type.
I'll write a quick helper function that capitalizes the first letter of the data type and puts the space
before any other capital letters.
This should look similar to the helper function we wrote in the map Jasc file for the Grath title.
Next for pie charts.
Let me create a variable called percentage and said that equal to an empty string is Arcas true.
Then I'll reassign this value to be a p tag that shows a percentage of the total and I'll add this as
the last line in my l assignment.
But how can I calculate the percentage.
One way is to use the start angle and end angle values.
The D-3 PI gives us at the bottom of this file.
Right a small helper function called Get percentage this function will calculate the difference between
those two angles.
Then divide by two times pi and multiply by 100 to get a number between 0 and 100.
This works because an arc takes up the whole circle when the difference between that start and its end
angle is to pi radians.
Once I have this difference around it to two decimal places and add a percent sign
awesome.
Now everything seems to be working.
That was a lot of code but I helped going through it was helpful.
Congratulations on completing these three sections.
I hope you've learnt a lot and will continue to try building interesting data visualizations.
If you build something you're particularly proud of please send it our way.
I'd love to see what kinds of things you've built with what you've learned so far.